[metrics-generator] filter out spans based on policy (#2274)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/metrics-generator/span_metrics.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/tempo/latest/server_side_metrics/span_metrics/

>   - /docs/tempo/latest/metrics-generator/span_metrics/

Reviewer: Good catch on the indent. I had to go look it up and you're right (which means I need to update my other PR).

}
```

### Filtering

> In some cases it may be desirable to reduce the number of metrics produced by the `spanmetrics` processor. This can be accomplished by configuring the processor to use a filter. An `include` filter is used to match criteria that must be present in the span in order to be included. Following the include filter, an `exclude` filter may be used to reject portions of what was previously included by the filter policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you may want to reduce the number of metrics produced by the `spanmetrics` processor. You can configure the processor to use an `include` filter to match criteria that must be present in the span in order to be included. Following the include filter, an `exclude` filter may be used to reject portions of what was previously included by the filter policy.
```

> Currently supported is filtering by resource and span attributes with the following value types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only filtering by resource and span attributes with the following value types is supported.
```

> - string
> - int
> - double

Reviewer: Are these items things taht should be formatted in ` ? 
```suggestion
- `string`
- `int`
- `double`
```

> Additionally, the following intrinsic span attributes may be filtered upon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, these intrinsic span attributes may be filtered upon:
```

> - name
> - status (code)
> - kind

Reviewer: Are these values that would appear in the code snippet? Should they be formatted with `? In other words: 
```suggestion
- `name`
- `status` (code)
- `kind`
```

> When implementing a filter policy, intrinsic keys to act on may be used directly, as in the following snippet.

Reviewer: The wording in this sentence is a little awkward. Maybe we can make it clearer? I have a suggestion below, but I"m not sure I'm getting the correct meaning. 
```suggestion
Intrinsic keys can be acted on directly when implementing a filter policy. For example: 
```

}
```

### Filtering

In some cases, you may want to reduce the number of metrics produced by the `spanmetrics` processor. You can configure the processor to use an `include` filter to match criteria that must be present in the span in order to be included. Following the include filter, an `exclude` filter may be used to reject portions of what was previously included by the filter policy.

Currently, only filtering by resource and span attributes with the following value types is supported.

- `bool`
- `double`
- `int`
- `string`

Additionally, these intrinsic span attributes may be filtered upon:

- `name`
- `status` (code)

> - `kind`

Author: Just added a commit.
